# Reflection by 

### Implementation of our  Robot

During the implementation of our robot that is named Ricky, we decided to use
the tutorial book to setup our robot. The reason we use the tutorial book is
that we had no experience in building these or any type of robots. We planned
to use the tutorial book to build a default structure and then advance the
robot with our design by adding gears to it to make it fast. The issue we found
with that was the one gear worked way faster than the other and that led to the
robot spinning in a circle and non-functional. So that led to a big issue
because of time so last second we decided to go back to the basic design and
found things online to make our robot faster. Also, we use textbooks and online
research to figure out how to use the color sensor so it would read the red
color paper and stop afterward that led to some issues because we had the color
sensor in the wrong port in our program and our robot would just fly by the
color. That also leads to another issue with building the obstacle detection
program because it would not pick up any of the obstacles than it would and it
would turn and go a different way which lead to the robot not being able to
cross the finish line. We used knowledge and research to come up with a loop to
help improve the problem but still struggled fully implementing the object
detection program part. Some other issues that also occurred were our device on
the robot switch screens and it wouldn't connect to wifi and didn't know how to
fix that till we watch some videos online. We also had to switch the battery
pack to get it to work

### Ethical or Aggressive Behavior of Your Robot For Each Race

In terms of the reading and results ethical and aggressive behaviors are shown
in our robot in some way. The way I describe ethical behavior according to the
readings and my robot is a robot that is under control and can complete a task
or by going from point A to point B. The way I describe an aggressive behavior
according to the readings and our robot as a robot that is not under control
can't go from point A or point B and is crashing into objects. In the sprint
race, our robot showed an ethical behavior because it went in a straight line
avoiding any physical confrontation with other bots while keeping a fast speed.
In the push race, our robot showed ethical behavior once again because our
robot was controlled while going in a straight line to push in the box into a
bin while controlling itself at top speed. For the last and final race which
was the obstacle race, I would say our bot showed more of aggressive behavior
because every time it notices an object the robot kinda freaked out and was
more out of control trying to avoid the object which led to more aggressive
behavior. As a total I would say our robot is more ethical just because in the
races it tested more control especially when it was at it's the highest speed
but also at the same time showed a little bit of an aggressive side because the
object detection program wasn't fully recognizing objects leading to an
unstable and aggressive bot but for every other feature the robot was ethical.

### Summary of Ethical or Aggressive Robots

After reading an article, we learned a lot about ethical and aggressive robots.
we learned that ethical robots according to the readings are bots that listen
to the command and do whatever task is set at hand with no backlash or physical
behavior. In terms of these bots, an ethical robot for example in the sprint
race would be a robot that goes straight without interfering any other bots but
at the same time reaching the finish line. Ethical robots act more like humans
in meaning by following the rules but they also can adapt to there setting by
using the knowledge that was given to them. We learned that aggressive robots
according to the readings kinda do their own thing while not listening to the
correct commands leading physical issues. In terms of these bots, aggressive
robots, for example, would be a bot that runs into obstacles and other bots in
an obstacle course instead of trying to avoid the bots. The final observation
made of ethical and aggressive behavior robots is that ethical robots usually
go at a slower speed but complete each task and aggressive behavior robots
usually ran faster that led running into obstacles, wall, other bots, and
usually ended in not finishing the task. My last observation that we made was
that we concluded that the best bots are considered more ethical and the worst
bots were considered more aggressive because they would crash and were out of
control. Slower ended up being better in this type of setting.
